---
title: Mar10, 2021
date: '2021-03-10'
image: 'https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1612373856198-8ff66f376aaa?ixid=MXwxMjA3fDB8MHxwaG90by1wYWdlfHx8fGVufDB8fHw%3D&ixlib=rb-1.2.1&auto=format&fit=crop&w=1052&q=80'
subject: ['other']
published: true
---

Remember to save often and early. Written entirely on my phone. This is version 2. Version 1 was better. Some leasons you relearn over and over.

Let me know what Mario means to you in the comments. :beers: to gamers of all types. whenI was 5, Mario was God!

The playstation 5 is blowing my mind 🤯. 4K with 60fps is legit! The DualSense feels amazing in your hands. 3D Surround audio sounds great with any set of headphones. I should be playing right now.....
If you haven't played the Rise of the Tomb Raider demo, which is on sale currently for $5.99 and seems like a steal, you will be blown away with how great it looks in stunning 4K. And the gameplay for Demon's Souls looks abolutely amazing! I didn't know my TV was capable of looking that good until seeing these games. Or any of the games on PS5. Astro's Playroom is legit and a ton of fun.

You have to wonder what the mid-lifecycle Ninetndo Switch upgrade is going to be, and if Zelda: BOTW2 is far behind. I hope the Switch garners more 3rd party support to make some great AAA games appear on the system.

## Cheers to everyone :beers:

As much as a technology detox is a good thing, being able to write this on my phone, make a commit to the branch, create a merge request and merge it which triggers the build process that pushes it to the, ..., think of all the XHR requests that go on between each step.

Technology is 🤯🤯🤯.
