---
title: Music is the Force
date: '2021-04-14'
image: 'https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1499415479124-43c32433a620?ixid=MnwxMjA3fDB8MHxwaG90by1wYWdlfHx8fGVufDB8fHx8&ixlib=rb-1.2.1&auto=format&fit=crop&w=1189&q=80'
subject: ['music']
published: true
---

I am working on an article about Web Sockets for next week, so until then I wanted to share some music that I found very affective.

## Not only am I a music dealer, I am a music junkie.

Music is the Force. Always has been. With it, one can move things without touching them both physically and behaviorally. The connections go deeper than both lightsabers and guitars being really cool. Think about it. 🤯

A friend sent this to me, and it hit all the right spots for me. I went into this blind not knowing what to expect and I am all the better for it. I immediately searched for it on Spotify after listening to this, but I couldn't find it. It is a brand new video at the time of this post. I could just listen to his voice singing and smile. His singing is so sincere and has such sweet resonance in his voice. His rhythm section on the guitar has a great development as well, beginning with the bass line and progressing through the full chords. It isn't fancy guitar playing, but it is rhythmically solid and sets the essential harmony for his soaring vocals which are the real highlight of the performance. It is great musical craftsmanship.

https://youtu.be/jIBXBUVB98M

And since Youtube automatically played this next video, I couldn't not share this. Here is Alicia Keys and John Mayer just really getting off on each other musically. They both rocked so hard. I can't believe I haven't seen this before. There is no denying the talent on that stage that really locked in and produced an amazing expression of energy, also known as the Force.

https://youtu.be/obkrMiyDrbs

And if you _are sure_ how you feel about John Mayer, I recently shared a video on another platform of John Mayer's misunderstood genius. The performance above is musical evidence supporting John Mayer being a musician's musician. In this video, the narrator speaks of using their ears to let them decide if music is good, and that follows my mantra for music listening as well.

https://youtu.be/Nx3PwLczLUE

Whatever your musical addiction, keep using the Force this week in anticipation of hearing about my first project with Web Sockets next week. Until then, keep musicing.
